hmm so Jamie pointed out this this
congressman is that who it is the Jamie
pointed this out that there's a
congressman and he released a series of
tweets and the first letter of all these
tweets if you put them all together it
says Epstein didn't kill himself or did
not kill so notice it didn't he did how
do you do the posture
should have gone with did not darting
here with that evidence of a link
wrapped Paul gaw sir what are the odds
this guy did this accidentally really
small right that's kind of like one of
those monkeys typing Shakespeare say
yeah yeah I don't think I could it could
work and the thing is he did it
backwards right so you didn't see what
the puzzle was until the last tweet
because the last time he does in E I got
a tweet from someone about 35 minutes
ago that I don't know if there's a bunch
of people online paying attention to it
or what but someone alerted me and a few
other people what it is yeah does he
have an image of that fucking that crazy
mask is that in his shit too
okay he's a agent he's got the I was
November first V mask yes yeah what is
that mask for Vendetta was a
representative of something
it's the Guy Fawkes mask yes that's
right right yeah so this guy's uh he's
he's thinking along alternative lines of
thought but that is really an
interesting way of saying it alphabet
tree that's yeah just making a bunch of
tweets don't ever address it just leave
it there walk away you know Lewis
Carroll was famous for that was he yeah
that was one of uh he did a lot of sort
of tricks with words you read the book
gödel Escher Bach No
yeah there's a whole bunch of stuff in
there about people who used who put
puzzles in text mmm you know that's kind
of a thing that people did I guess back
more in the 18th century in before well
this Epstein case is probably the most
blatant example of a public murder of a
crucial witness I've ever seen in my
entire life or anybody's ever seen and
the the the minimal amount of outrage
about this the no minimal amount of
cover it's fuckin fascinating I mean I
what's amazing to me just as a you know
somebody works in the media
is that this was shaping up to be the
biggest like news story in history yes
and the instant he you know he died or
was died or however you want to call it
it this story just fell off the face of
the earth it's like nobody's doing
anything about it and I I don't
100% understand that I mean I get it why
that's happening but it's it's just
amazing
well when the woman from ABC what was
her name Amy that lady the the one who
wrote Roebuck you who had the frustrated
moment that she called it a frustrating
private moment right what she was
talking about having the scoop and
having that story and them squashing it
right like this this is all stuff that
everybody used to think was conspiracy
everybody's think this was stoner talk
this was you know you don't I mean like
this is stuff where people just a
delusional they believe all kinds of
wacky conspiracies sure but the reality
is much less complicated well this is
not possible this is one of those things
it's so obvious it's so in everyone's
face well there's a couple of things
going on because there there are many
different ways than this can play out I
mean you could have a news director who
just sort of instinctively decides well
we can't do that story because I might
want to have well and quedan later or I
might want to have this politician on
later and it's it's not like anybody
tells them necessarily that we can't do
this but sighs too hot you if you grow
up in this system and you've been in the
the business for a long time you just
you have all these things that are
drilled into you and almost like the
cellular level about what you can and
cannot get into and I think there but
there were some explicit things that
happen with Epstein to I mean they keep
there there were a lot of news agencies
that killed stories about him that you
know and we're hearing what some of them
in Vanity Fair this thing you know so
yeah it's it's bit stay it's bad it's
terrible yeah yeah when when I found out
that Clinton flew no less than 26 times
on a plane with Epstein I was like dude
I haven't flown that many times with my
mom
long did he know Epstein yeah I don't
know but I mean they have that many
flights to have the Secret Service
people involved I mean that's incredibly
bold what was he dealing with just girls
was Clinton that much of a hound that he
would go that deep into the well that
many times 26 times well that's the
thing about the Epson story that makes
no sense to me like I I thought that the
percentage of people who were out and
out like perverts who had a serious
problem like with petty ophelia or
whatever it was was pretty small you
know yeah but your but they had a lot of
people coming in and out of this
compound and and it just seems like it's
a it's a very strange story what were
they really up to I have I have no idea
and was was it all a blackmail scheme
it's just it's just so strange well
seems like the pedophilia aspect of it
might be directly connected to Epstein
himself like he might be the one that
has a problem with girls that are like
16 and he likes them very or he did like
them but with the other guys it could
just be girls
it could be yeah yeah I mean that's why
it's so crazy like how could it be that
these but maybe it's not but they must
but they knew who he was
yeah but they probably didn't know the
extent of it probably not yeah up until
a point up until he was arrested right
and then they're like oh well then
that's when everybody backed off of him
right yes yeah I mean I'm not a hundred
percent yeah I haven't covered this
story in depth I've only I only really
got into it a little bit we made you cuz
it mixes a lot of things that are are
very tough to cover yes you know the
intelligence world is very tough to
cover mm-hm
you know it's it's hard to get stories
out of there that they don't want you to
have yeah and this is this is like the
mother of all stories and you know in
terms of that and they're just little
little bread crumbs here and there that
whole thing about Acosta
you know the vanity vanity fair-- quote
from him is that when he said that when
he looked at the case he didn't do it
because I was told he belonged to
intelligence yes what does that mean
right now whose intelligence you know
what I mean like what agency but what
for you
and then you pair that with things like
you know I have friends on Wall Street
who told me I've never heard a single
instance of this guy actually having a
trade right you know so what was his
hedge fund doing you know I mean if you
think about it hedge funds a perfect way
to do blackmail well because you can
just have people putting money in and
out all the time and it would look like
investment yeah so very strange story
well Eric Weinstein had a conversation
with him you know Eric Weinstein with
Peter Thiel capital right yeah he's like
this guy does know what the fuck he's
talking about oh yeah he's an actor
right this is nonsense right right that
was initial almost instantaneous
response yeah yeah and and and what real
clients did he ever have what any
jewelry trade and what has he got a
billion dollars or whatever he had yeah
no it's half a billion under management
yeah it's ridiculous why the guy who
owns Victoria Secrets give him a seventy
million dollar home right in New York
City like why I mean these are all
things that would have been really
interesting to get into you know try to
kill himself the suicide didn't happen
to him like in the wire all right oh
yeah yeah so unfortunate so
unfortunately the cameras died so
unfortunately sustained an injury that's
uh that you usually only get through
strangulation right yeah murders you he
fell on the ground and accidentally
broke his hyoid bone yeah big deal I
mean it's so bizarre I can't stand
consider conspiracy theories I'm one of
these people who who doesn't like
reading but I can't I can't make this
story work in a way that isn't you know
yes pure toriel's well that's the thing
it's like it gets to a point where you
like okay even Michael Shermer who runs
skeptic magazine wait a minute the
cameras we're not working seems like a
conspiracy fucking when Michael Shermer
says he that guy doesn't believe in
anything
right right he is fucking he's down the
line on virtually every single thing
that's ever happened he doesn't believe
in any conspiracies well well how do you
what's the innocent explanation for any
has none that doesn't make any sense you
can't you can't spin it in any way to
make it not a crazy conspiracies
especially when the the brother
as a doctor to do an autopsy oh yeah it
says date I was fucking murdered right
yeah Michael Baden the famous guy from
the HBO autopsy show right yep
absolutely
Oh craziness complete craziness and you
know it's an example of you know the FG
star it's interesting because it's
because it's about villains on both
sides of the aisle right this is a
classic is something I've written about
before is that the press does not like
to do stories where the problem is
bipartisan yeah right so when you have
an institutional problem when Democrats
and Republicans both share
responsibility for it when you know or
or if it's an institution that kind of
exists in perpetuity no matter what the
administration is we don't really like
to do those stories we like if Fox likes
to do stories about Democrats MSNBC
likes to do stories about Republicans
but the thing that's kind of you know
all over the place they don't like to do
that story Epstein is you know he's
friends with Trump and and with Clinton
I mean yeah obviously has more friends
on the Clinton side but still and I
think that's this is one of the reasons
why this story doesn't have a lot of
traction in the media because neither
side really likes the idea of going too
deeply on it feels like to me well it's
but the the blatant aspect of it they
don't mean the closest that we have to
that is the absolute murder the Jamal
Khashoggi murder that's the closest
thing we have to or is absolute murder
right this one but but it's also so
insanely blatant but now you have
foreign actors that are involved in it
and they all disperse and then there's
left with this confusion of to who's
responsible for it well Saudi Arabia
that's another example where you can't
really say it's you know one side of the
both parties have been incredibly
complicit in their cooperation with the
Saudi regime and in you know the
massacres that are going on Yemen it's a
classic example of what Noam Chomsky
used to talk about with worthy and
unworthy victims right like if the
Soviet communists did it they were that
was bad but if death squads in El
Salvador killed a priest or a Catholic
priest you know then that that was
something we didn't write about because
they were our client state Yemen is a
story we don't write about Syria
is a story we do write about but they're
really equivalent stories and yeah the
but you're absolutely right the
khashoggi thing I don't think either
party and or either sides media really
wants to get into that all that deeply
how much is media shifting now like
you've obviously been a journalist for a
long time but come how much are things
changing in the light of the Internet
well a lot and this is what I mean I
have a new book out now that's really
about this right what why the business
has changed what's it called hey dink
yeah it's out its out now and it's it's
really about how the press the business
model the press has changed I mean it's
something that you talk about a lot you
hear you on your show all the time
talking about how news agencies are
always trying to push narratives on
people trying to get people wound up and
upset and that is a conscious business
strategy that we didn't have maybe 30
years ago you know you think about
Walter Cronkite or what the news was
like back in the day you had the whole
family sitting around the table and
everybody watched it was sort of a
unifying experience to watch the news
hmm now you have news for the crazy
right-wing uncle and then you have news
for the kid in the che shirt and their
different channels and they're trying to
wind these these people up you know to
get them upset constantly and stay there
and a lot of that has to do with the
Internet because before the internet
news companies had like a basically free
way of making money they dominated
distribution the newspaper was the only
thing in town that had a you know if you
wanted to get a wan ad it had to be
through the local newspaper
now with the internet the internet is
the distribution system anybody has
access to it not just the local
newspaper and so there the easy money is
gone and we have to chase clicks more
than we ever had had to before we have
to chase eyeballs more than we have to
so we've had to build new money-making
strategies and and a lot of it has to do
with just sort of monetizing anger and
division and all these things and we
just didn't do that before and it's a
had a profound difference on the
on the media as a writer if you
personally experienced this sort of the
influence where people have tried to
lean you in the direction of clickbait
or perhaps maybe alter titles that make
them a little bit disingenuous in order
to get people excited about the I mean
you know I my editors at Rolling Stone
are pretty good in it and they give me a
lot of weight leeway to kind of explore
whatever I want to explore but I
definitely feel a lot of pressure that I
didn't feel before in the business
because especially in the Trump era and
and you know I've written a lot about
the Russia story right but you know
that's an example of one size media does
has one take on it and another size
media has another take on it and if you
are just the journalist and you and you
want to just sort of report the facts
you feel a lot of pressure to fit the
facts into a narrative that your
audience is gonna like and I had a lot
of problem with the Russia story because
I thought you know I don't like Donald
Trump but I'm like I don't I don't think
this guy's James Bond consorting with
Russian spies I think he's corrupt in
other ways and there was a lot of
blowback on my side of the business
because you know people in sort of
liberal quote-unquote liberal media you
just have all there's a lot of pressure
to have everybody fit into a certain
narrative and I think that's really
unhealthy for the business yeah
very unhealthy right it's you know
because as soon as people can be
manipulated to conform it to that
narrative then all sorts of stories can
be shifted oh yeah yeah absolutely and
and you the the job used to be about
challenging your audience every now and
then right like if you think a certain
thing is true well it's our job to give
you the bad news and say that you're
wrong about that that used to be what
the job was to be journalists now it's
the opposite now we have an audience
we're gonna tell you exactly what you
want to hear and what you and we're
gonna reinforce what you think and
that's very unhealthy a great example of
this was in the summer of 2016 I was
covering the campaign I started to hear
reporters talking about how they didn't
want to report poll numbers that showed
the race was closed they thought that
that was gonna hurt Hillary all right
like we said in other words we had
information that the race was closed and
we're not telling this to audiences
because
they wanted to hear that it was gonna be
a blowout for Hillary right on and that
didn't help Hillary it didn't help the
Democrats do not warn people about this
right but it was just because if you
turned on MSNBC or CNN and you heard
that Trump was within five points or
whatever it was that was gonna be a
bummer for that audience so we stayed
away from it and you know this is the
kind of thing it's it's not politically
beneficial to anybody it's just we're
just trying to keep people glued to the
set by telling them what they want to
hear and that's not the news that's not
that's not our job you know and it
drives me crazy
yeah it should drive you crazy that what
you said about journalism being it used
to be something that you're challenging
your reader you're you're giving them
this reality that may be uncomfortable
but it's it's educational and expands
their view of the world this where do
they get that now they don't that's the
whole problem
like you get you can predict exactly
what the each news organization what
their take is going to be on any issue
by going oh
just did you take an example when when
the business about the Isis leader al
Baghdadi
being killed hit the news
instantaneously you knew that the New
York Times CNN and the Washington Post
that they were going to write a whole
bunch of stories about how Trump was
overplaying the significance of it that
he you know that he was telling lies
about it they were they mate they you
knew they were gonna make the entire
thing about Trump and then meanwhile Fox
had a completely different spin on about
how heroic it was but but news audiences
didn't have anywhere to go to just
simply hear who was this person
why was he important what were the
growth of the people in the region think
you know what kind of what is this gonna
mean going forward is they actually
gonna have any impact you know is are we
gonna have to continually you know is
there gonna be a new person like this
every every time are we actually
accomplishing it you don't get that
anywhere all you get is Trump is a
shithead on one side and Trump is a hero
on the other side that's that's not the
news you know yeah and but the thing is
it's like
the business aspect of it is so weird
like you have your guys like Hannity or
you can absolutely predict what that
guy's gonna say every single time you
know what side he's on and he's blatant
about it mhm and when you see someone
like that you go okay well this is okay
where this is this is peak bullshit
right so where where do we go where I
see both sides where's the where's the
where's the middle ground where someone
goes well this is true but you gotta say
this is honest too and this is this is
what's going on over on this side and
the Republicans have a point here and
you don't you don't
there's no mainstream media place where
you can go for that right now
no there isn't and that's I mean I mean
one of this is one of things already but
this is one of the reasons why shows
like yours are so popular I mean I think
there's a complete loss of trust that
they feel like people are not being
honest with them all right and they're
not being straight and you know they
they come to people like you and and a
lot of other people of independent folks
who aren't like the quote-unquote
mainstream media because they it's not
really thought it's not reporting it's
not anything if you can predict a
hundred percent what a person's going to
say that's not thinking that's not
reporting that's not it's just marketing
someone like me that's so disturbing I'm
a fuckin comedian and a Cagefighting
commentator when people are coming to me
like this is this is the source where
you go for unbiased representations of
what's going on the world that's crazy
well I mean I started interview with
Barry Weiss right and you just you did a
simple base you didn't go to journalism
school right no no so she said something
about how you know oh she's an Assad
toady and you said what does that mean
you just ask the simple basic questions
right what does that mean where is that
coming from how do you know that you
know yeah like journalism isn't brain
surgery that's all it is is to asking
the simple questions that sort of pop to
mind when you when you're in a situation
like where did this happen how do we
know that that's true and but there's a
whole generation of people in the press
now who just simply do not do that go
through the process of just asking
simple questions like how do I know
that's true like after each story your
report you're supposed to kind of like
wipe your memory clean and start over
so just because somebody was banned the
last time you covered them doesn't mean
that they're necessarily going to be the
bad guy this time you cover them all
right you have to continually test your
assumptions and ask yourself is this
true is that true is this true how do we
know this and we've just stopped doing
that like the it's just the maratha of
like pre-written
takes on things and it's it's really
really bad and you can see why audiences
are fleeing from this stuff they just
don't have the impact they used to well
it's really interesting this a lot of
this is this unpredicted consequence of
having these open platforms like
Facebook and like where people are
getting their news and then the
algorithm sort of directs them towards
things that are going to piss them off
which I don't even think necessarily was
initially the plan I think the plan is
to accelerate engagement right so they
find out what what what you're engaging
with what stories you're engaging with
and then they give you more of that like
re my friend Ari Shaffir actually tried
this out and what he did was he went on
YouTube and only looked puppy videos and
that's all he looked at for like weeks
and then YouTube only started
recommending puppy videos to him so it's
not necessarily that Facebook wants you
to be outraged but that when you are
outraged whether it's over abortion or
war whatever the subject is you're going
to engage more and their algorithm
favors you engaging more so if you're
engaging more about something very
positive you know if you're all about
yoga and meditation your algorithm would
probably favor yoga and meditation
because those are the things that you
engage with but it's natural for people
to be pissed off sure to look for things
that are annoying especially if you're
done working and you're like kind this
world sucks what's going on that sucks
worse and then you go to your Facebook
and oh Jesus look at this goddamn border
crisis right oh Jesus look at this while
fucking here's the problem with these
goddamn liberal they don't know sure and
you engage and then that's your life and
then it's it's saying oh I know how to
get mad all fired up I'm gonna fucking
send them some abortion stories whoa
right and then that's your feed right
yeah exactly but the but there's so many
economic incentives that go in there
right they know the
more that you engage the longer that
you're on right the more ads yes you can
you're gonna see yeah right so that same
dynamic that Facebook and and the social
media companies figure it out
which is that if you keep feeding
something somebody something that you
know has been proven to spin that person
up and get them wound up that they're
gonna they're gonna come back for more
of it and they're gonna keep coming back
and actually you can expand their desire
just to see that stuff by by making them
sort of more angry overall and they will
they will come back and they will spend
more and more and more time well the
news companies figured out the same
thing and they're just they're just
funneling stuff at you that they know
you're gonna you're gonna just be in an
endless cycle of sort of an impotent
mute rage all the time but it's kind of
addicting you know and they know that
and in there and it's it's sort of like
the tobacco companies they know it's a
bet it's a product that's bad for you
and they just keep giving it to you
because you know it makes money for them
yeah and it's just the thing about it is
all of it is about ads told how many
clicks they get in ads if they just said
you can have a social media company but
you can't have ads there's a new federal
law no more ads on Facebook no more ads
on YouTube no our ads on Twitter no more
ads on Instagram good luck right yeah
we're all collapse yo yeah but that
seems to be what it is it's like they
figured out that your data is worth a
tremendous amount of money and the way
they can utilize that money is to sell
advertising mm-hmm ya know they they
coulda coming and going because they're
they're not only selling you ads or but
they're also collecting the information
about your habits which they can then
sell again yeah so it's a it's a dual
revenue stream you know is it the media
companies they're basically they're just
consumer businesses where they're
they're trading attention for ad space
right so if they can get you to watch
four hours of television a day they have
that many ad slots that they can show
you and they know how much money they're
gonna make you know but the the social
media companies get it two ways they're
they they get it by you know attracting
your eyeballs and then also selling
selling your habits to the other the
next set of advertise
which you know is very insidious but
what's interesting about this is that
most people don't think about this as a
consumer business right like Americans
these days are very conscious of like
what they put in their bodies
you know they won't eat too many candy
bowl depending on who they are right but
people at least look at what the
calories are but they don't think about
the news that way or social media like
that with it put on their brains and
it's also a consumer product yeah it
really is I've gone over that many times
with people that that's a diet this is
your diet you have a mental diet as well
as you have a physical like food diet
absolutely of an information diet and a
lot of people are just eating shit with
their brain it's the worst kind of junk
food it's like it's like a cigarette
sandwich the stuff yeah it's so fucking
bad and it's getting worse it is it is
getting worse and it's what's weird is
that this is a ten-year-old problem and
no one saw it coming and it's kind of
overtaking politics it's overtaking the
social discourse everybody's wrapped up
in social media conversations they carry
them on over to the dinner table and it
gets people in arguments at work and all
this stuff no one saw coming these that
no one saw the this outrage economy from
you know social media sites from things
like Facebook no one saw that no one no
one ever predicted that your data was
gonna be so valuable no the fuck saw
that I don't think anybody I mean I
think some people in the tech business
probably saw early on yeah it's a
potential for this but you know in terms
of other other businesses like the news
media and also politics I mean you have
to think about the impact of this on
politics has been enormous
you know I covered Donald Trump Trump
really was just all about whatever
you're pissed off about I'm right there
with you you know and people are just
sort of pissed off about lots of things
these days because they're doing this
all day long you know and if you if you
can if you can take advantage of that
then you're gonna have a lot of success
and I think I think a lot of people
haven't figured that out and some of
these things are real causes like people
are upset about real things but it's
just yeah you're absolutely right people
did not see this coming and they didn't
prepare for it's just weird that it's
one of the biggest sources of income on
and people didn't see it coming I mean
Facebook is generating billions of
dollars and now yeah potentially
shifting global politics yeah and you
know the the whole issue of a couple of
companies like Facebook having control
over what you do and do not see is yeah
it's an enormous problem that nobody
nobody really cares about I've tried to
write about it a few times I've written
a couple of features about it what about
how what a serious problem this is look
if you look at other countries like
Israel China there there are a number of
companies where you've seen this this
pattern of internet platforms
liaison with the government to decide
what people can and cannot see and
they'll say well we don't want to see
you know Palestinian protest movement so
we don't want to see you know the
Venezuelan Channel tell us or like we
want to take that off you think about
how that could end up happening in the
United States and it is already a little
bit happening it's a little bit but it
seems to be happening only in the terms
of like leaning towards the progressive
side which people are okay with because
they think especially in the light of
Donald Trump being in office this is
acceptable censorship yeah but they're I
think they're wrong about I think you're
wrong about that - yeah and terribly
dangerous
it's very short-sighted yes in and they
and I think there's there's also this
thing that happens with people where
they think well this is never gonna
happen to me you know like you can do
that bad thing to this person that I
don't like but you know as long as it's
never gonna happen to me exactly but
they're wrong and my history shows it
always does happen to you you know and
that's so we're giving these companies
an enormous amount of power to decide
all kinds of things what we look at what
what kind of political ideas we can be
exposed to you know I think it's very
very dangerous
that biased interpretation of what
something is that was what people talked
about when the initial Patriot Act was
enacted when people were like hey this
might be fine with Obama in office right
maybe Obama is not going to enact some
of the worst clauses of this and use it
on people or the was the NDAA so I would
rise yeah
where some of the things were just
completely unconstitutional but don't
worry we're not gonna use those but
you're setting these tools aside for
whatever fucking president we have like
what if we have a guy you out trumps
Trump right I mean we never thought we'd
have a Trump right what if we have a
next-level guy post Trump what if
there's some sort of catastrophe tragedy
attack something that really gets people
fired up and they vote in someone who
takes it up to another level and then he
has these tools and then he uses these
tools on his political enemies which is
entirely possible well I mean we've
already seen that a little bit I mean
people don't want to bring this up I
mean i but you know a lot of the stories
that have come out about Trump they're
coming from leaks of classified
information that are coming from those
war on terror programs that were
instituted after 9/11 yes this is five
the certifies Amendments Act the NSA
programs to collect data like they're
they're unmasking people like we have a
lot of evidence now that there was a
lawsuit a couple that came out about a
month ago that showed that the FBI was
doing something like 60,000 searches a
month at one point where they're on you
know they were asking the NSA for the
ability to unmask names and that that
sort of thing so we're I mean these
tools are incredibly powerful they're
incredibly dangerous but people thought
after 9/11 they were scared so you know
we want to protect ourselves so that's
okay for now
you know well we'll pull it back later
but they mean it but you never do pull
it back right no and I mean it always
ends up being used by somebody in the
wrong way and I think we're starting to
see that that's going to be a problem
yeah I'm real concerned about places
like Google and Facebook altering the
path of free speech and and leaning
people in certain directions and
silencing people that have opposing
viewpoints and the fact that they think
that they're doing this for good because
this is how they see the world and they
don't understand that you have to let
these ideas play out in the marketplace
of free speech and free ideas if you
don't do that if you don't do that if
you don't let people debate the merits
the pros the cons what's wrong what's
right if you don't do that then you
don't get real discourse if you don't
get real discourse you're essentially
you've got some sort
of an intellectual dictatorship going on
and because it's a progressive
dictatorship you think it's okay because
it's people who want everybody be
inclusive and you know I mean this is
this is a weird time for that it's a
really weird time for that because as
you said people are so short-sighted
they don't understand that these like
the First Amendment's in place for a
very good reason and set up a long
fucking time ago because they did the
math they saw where it was going and
they were like look we have to have the
ability to express ourselves we have to
have the ability to freely express
thoughts and ideas and challenge people
that are in a position of power because
if we don't we wind up exactly where we
came from mm-hmm yeah no and and courts
continually reaffirmed that idea that
the the the way to deal with bad speech
was with more speech yes and they did it
over and over and over again you know we
we the the legal standard for speech you
know still I think remains that unless
it's directly inciting violence you
couldn't you could like you can have
speech that incites violence generally
and even the the Supreme Court even
upheld that you can have speech that's
that comes from you know material that
was stolen illegally that's okay but we
had a very very high bar for prohibiting
speech always and you know the the
liable cases this the cases for
defamation you know that also
established a very very high standard
for punishing speech but now all of a
sudden people have a completely
different idea but it's like you know
forget about the fact that this was a
fundamental concept in American society
for you know two hundred and thirty
years or what they just want to change
it you know without thinking about the
consequences well that's where a guy
like Trump could be almost like it's
almost like a Trojan horse in a way like
if you wanted to play 3d chess which you
would do you'd get a guy who's just so
egregious and so outrageous and then so
many people opposed them get that guy
let him get into a position of power and
then sit back watch the outrage bubble
and then take advantage of that and
funnel people into certain directions I
mean I don't think that's what's
happening but if I was super fucking
tinfoil Hattie that's how I would go
about it I would say this is what you
want if you really want to change things
for your direction
put someone that opposes it that's
disgusting and that way people just a
rational intelligent person is never
gonna side with him
so they're gonna side with the people
that oppose him and then you could sneak
a lot of shit in that maybe they
wouldn't agree with and any other
circumstance yeah Trump's election sort
of like another 9/11 right like you know
9/11 happened all of a sudden people who
weren't in favor of the government being
able to go through your library records
or listen to your phone calls and all of
a sudden they were like oh Jesus I'm so
freaked out like yeah fine when Trump
got elected all of a sudden people
suddenly had very different ideas about
speech and like they you know hey that
guy's so bad you know that maybe we
should consider banning x y&z yeah and I
yeah it's me if he was conceived as a
way to discredit the First Amendment and
some other ideas that would that would
that would be a brilliant 3d chess move
yeah super sneaky yeah that's like China
level many steps ahead exactly I mean
what do you think all this goes it seems
like this is I mean obviously just wrote
a book about it but it seems like this
is accelerating and it doesn't seem like
anyone's taking a step back and hitting
the brakes or opting out it seems like
people are just ramping up the rhetoric
yeah I mean I think that the the
divisive miss problem is is going to get
worse before it gets better
the the business model of of of the
media now is so entrenched that until
some of these these companies start
going out of business because they're
doing you know they're losing audience
because people don't trust them anymore
the you know the news is going to keep
doing what it's doing it's gonna Canada
model is gonna become normal for for
news companies I think it or it already
basically is you know on both the left
and the right and in terms of you know
the Internet companies they're
consolidating they're getting more and
more power all the time and there's I I
think we've already seen that people
have I think too much tolerance for
letting letting them make decisions
about
what we can and cannot see and I think
it's gonna get worse before it gets
better I don't know what do you think I
yeah that's what I think I mean Facebook
Twitter all these play Twitter has some
of the most ridiculous reasons for
banning people one of them is dead
naming oh yeah
so if you call Caitlyn Jenner Bruce
right okay I like you better when you
were Bruce banned for life right you
can't even say I liked you better when
you were Bruce banned for life right
yeah and and and actually that that
what's really interesting about that is
that's a that's a core concept that
we've changed completely like all the
different ways in the past that we
punished speech we punished the speech
not the person yes right so if you know
liable defamation all those things first
of all they were all done through the
courts so you had a way to fight back if
you thought you were unjustly accused of
having defamed somebody or live with
somebody but if they found against you
the person who got something out of it
was the person who was directly harmed
right and again the courts judged that
and they you know it wasn't like you
were banned from for life from ever
speaking again right they just gave a
bunch of money to a person who might
have suffered some kind of career injury
or whatever it was because of that and
usually there was a retraction or it was
removed from the press or whatever it
was but it wasn't like we were we were
saying we're never gonna allow you to be
hurt or seen from again we kind of won't
we were sort of encouraging
optimistically people to get better
right and yeah and to be different right
now and now we're not doing that at all
now we're just saying you won one strike
or two strikes whatever you're gone and
it's not like it's a public thing so you
can't sue over it right yeah well that's
what's crazy about it because it is a
public utility in a way yes it is even
Jack Dorsey from Twitter and admitted as
much on the podcast and he wishes that
we would view it that way he's actually
proposed two versions of Twitter a
Twitter with their standard censorship
in place and then a Wild West Twitter
mm-hmm but I'm like sign me up right
yeah on that Wild West Twitter right is
the problem with like things like gab
and I've gone there a few times and
watched it and I mean even Milo Union
appleís is criticized for being this is
that it's just like so hate-filled
because it's the place where you can go
and
fuckin say anything right so the only
people that it's attracting are people
that just want to go there and just
fucking shoot off canons of n-bombs and
RAL everybody a kike it's crazy
I mean it's and there's real
communication there as well there's
there's plenty of that too but the sheer
number of people that go there just to
blow off steam because they can't say
those things on Twitter or Facebook or
any other social media platform without
being banned because of that it becomes
a channel for it mm-hmm you know and
it's like it doesn't get a chance it
doesn't get a chance to the concept is
great the concept is if you're not doing
anything illegal we're not gonna stop
you're not daxing anybody you're not
threatening anybody's life we're not
gonna stop you go ahead but if you you
do that and you're the only one that
does that unfortunately everyone who
wants to just say fucked up shit goes
right and you get a disproportionate
amount of fucked up shit
yeah and it's directly because the fact
that these places like Twitter or
Facebook have censored and they make it
so you are scared to say whatever you
want to say mm-hmm and so you can so
even if you have controversial ideas
that maybe some people would agree with
in someone you get banned for life for
just controversial ideas even
controversial ideas that are
scientifically and biologically factual
right the transgender issue like if you
say there's a woman I brought her up a
million times when Megan Murphy yes a
man is never a woman she says they tell
her to take it down she takes a
screenshot of it puts that up takes it
down but takes a screenshot of the
initial tweet haha look at that banned
for life right a man is never a woman is
a fact that is a fact it's a biological
fact now if you decide to become a woman
and we recognize you as a woman in
society well that's just common courtesy
in my eyes like you have a person who
has this issue they feel like they were
born in the wrong body okay I get that
I'm cool with that
but to make it so that you're banned
forever you can call someone a dumb fuck
an idiot a piece of shit your mother
should have swallowed you everybody's
like yeah do Petain Terms of Service
seem fine here everything's good say a
man is never a woman gone for life right
yeah Caitlyn Jenner I liked you better
when you're bruce dunn that's it yeah no
and and it's crazy and obviously
people see that and they and they just
get matter and and it seems to
legitimate
it makes people very very resentful in
ways that they wouldn't be otherwise it
makes there's no pathway there's no
there's no other thing right there's no
free speech platform that's universally
accepted like these ones like I said
like gab or there's a couple other ones
out there there's not no one's using
them yeah it's a very small percentage
of the people in comparison to something
like Twitter which is enormous right and
so because people don't want to be
kicked off the platform they're
radically changing there is no sense
right and we're seeing this a lot also
with political ideas to like you know
you know I have a podcast used useful
idiots it's called right we're like we
try to talk to people who are kind of
excluded from mainstream media because
that's happening a lot now right like if
you have the wrong idea about anything
whether it's Russia gate or the
israel-palestine conflict or Syria or
whatever it is you'll you will suddenly
be sort of labeled I mean with tulsi
gabbard friends they call her an
assadist right like once you get stuck
with the term assadist on twitter nobody
wants to associate you with you no one
wants to defend you right they all kind
of and be it's your you're like suddenly
like the kid with lice and people don't
want that to happen to them so they stop
saying X Y & Z yeah right and and they
just sort of go with with the flow will
go with the crowd and it causes this
sort of you know uniform conformist
discourse that does isn't really about
anything right people are afraid to talk
which is crazy yeah right well you're
not supposed to talk to someone I
experience this all the time the this
idea of giving someone a platform like
look if I have someone on like a ben
shapiro or something like that you
shouldn't give that guy a platform well
he's already got a platform should
wouldn't be better if I just talk to him
and find out what his ideas are and ask
him about those ideas like we had a very
bizarre conversation about gay people
where it means basically full on
biblical religious interpretation of gay
people which to me is always strange
like okay how do you stand on shellfish
you know do you
just as strong on shrimp whereas your on
gay guys right like why is it gay guys
it's that like the Bible's pretty clear
on a bunch of different things that
don't seem to fire people up the way
homosexuality does like why why do you
care if you had a friend that was eating
shrimp would you go to his house we had
shrimp cocktail no but you wouldn't go
to a friend's house if he was having a
gay marriage mm-hmm so you won't
celebrate gay marriage but you don't
mind a guy who's got a fucking a
shellfish platter right out at a party
like that's in the Bible man right
you're not supposed to wear two
different kinds of cloth you you know
that is the bunt there's a bunch of shit
in the Bible that you like Wow God was
wrong about that like how confident are
you right how comforting you that you
can interpret God's Word so perfectly
that you're like you let the lobster
slide but all that but fucking we got to
stop that you know like it's really
weird but that's the whole point of you
to challenge the idea yes yes but but
the prevailing view now is that even
having the discussion yes because you
have a platform I mean I read that thing
in Al and the Atlantic you know where
they're like you you you give people to
I forget what the phrase was they were
saying something like you had I give to
people too many chances too many chances
the people who had already forfeited the
right to have them or something
something along those lines but that was
silly yeah guy gave up his hand when he
said about me that I'm inexhaustible but
that he like snaps right oh it's about
you and now that's what it is you not
you like naps okay so you don't like
people that have energy I'm super sorry
but the the you know I thought that
piece was really interesting because
that the whole idea that there are
people who have forfeited the right to
take a forever to communicate forever
well who decides that I mean it again
there's this there's this intellectual
snob ISM yet goes on and you know
frankly on my side of the media aisle
where well we'll decide what what an
appropriate thought is what's what's
right thinking what's wrong thinking you
know what who gets to have a platform
who doesn't get to have a platform who
we who were gonna call a monster who are
not currently I mean Minh Tunder stand
that the arrogance where
from to decide that some people you know
and I totally disagree with people like
you know Alex Jones or Shapiro or you
know most things and but I don't think
that they should be wiped off the face
of the earth I mean I don't know
well it's interesting to challenge
people on these weird ideas and find out
how they come to them and and you will
get a lot of fence sitters that will
recognize the flaws in their thinking if
you let them talk because there's a lot
of people that aren't sure either way
maybe they haven't invested a lot of
time investigating it maybe they really
don't know what this guy stands for
maybe they just read a cartoonish
version of who he is and then you get to
hear them talking to go oh well I see
the flaw in his thinking or oh well he's
right about some things and a lot of
people are right about some things
they're wrong about things and they're
right about things and the only way you
can discern that is you communicate with
them but as soon as you deep platform
people like forever you're just gonna
make a bunch of angry people you're just
gonna make a bunch of people that are
completely distrusting and you're gonna
absolutely empower the opponents of your
ideas but like people that do get to
when when do they get a chance to have
their voice well when they vote so the
more you do this shit the more you
censor conservatives the more they're
gonna vote against liberals this is just
a fact
mm-hmm there's no getting around that
this is human nature yeah I mean I I
lived in the former Soviet Union you
know for 11 years and 100% if you lived
in Soviet Russia and something was
published by an official publisher
people thought it was basically bullshit
right but if it was in the samizdat if
it was in the privately circled stuff
that had been repressed and censored
people thought that was the coolest
thing in the world like that that was
the hot ticket right and you're
automatically giving something cachet
and an added weight by censoring it I
mean this is just proof it's just the
way it works it's human nature if people
think that you don't want them to see
something they're gonna run through it
twice as hard you know so I just don't
understand a lot of that instinct I
think people people have this idea that
it works that you know the deep
platforming works but you can't deep
platformer an idea you know you may be
able to do it to a person or to yes but
you eventually
you have to confront the idea you could
do it to a few people and it has been
successful which is one of the reason
why people are so emboldened like they
have a successful IDI platform Milo
mm-hmm I mean they really have it's very
hard to hear him talk anymore you don't
he's not in the public conversation the
way he used to be right because they
kicked him off of all these different
platforms and if you go into why they
kicked him off these different platforms
but even if you don't agree with him and
I don't own a lot of things like boy I
don't agree with kicking him off those
platforms if you you listen to what he
got kicked off for it's like man I don't
know this this doesn't seem like this
makes a lot of sense yeah no I mean the
same thing with Alex Jones
yeah Alex Alex Jones has said you know
he's got after me a couple of times in
ways that were pretty funny actually but
when he was you know kicked off the all
these platforms you know I wrote a piece
saying I think people are kind of doing
an end zone dance a little early on this
one you know because you Jones is a
classic example of how the system
the way the system used to work they
would have punished him for for being in
the libelous about the Sandy Hook thing
right because that that would sort of
fit the classic definition of what was
what prohibited speech was before but we
wouldn't any he would have lost probably
a lot and he still might on in those
court cases but to remove him forever I
think you know it just sets it it
creates a new way of dealing with speech
that I think is very dangerous you know
right because the goalposts keep getting
moved right if you can ban him for that
then why don't you ban me for repeating
the things that I said about Megan
Murphy right or ban because what I said
about Bruce Jenner banned this for that
I mean you it gets you get further and
further down the line you keep moving
these goalposts and next thing you know
you're in a very rigid tightly
controlled area where you can
communicate and you're suppressed and
that just it accelerates your desire to
step out of that boundary and it makes
you want to say things that maybe you
wouldn't even have thought of before and
also logistically it's an incredibly
it's a it's an insane thing to even
think about asking platforms to
rationally go through all this content I
talked to somebody who
a pretty high-ranking Facebook executive
after the Alex Jones thing and he said
think about what we used to used to do
just to keep porn off Facebook and we're
dealing with what a couple of billion
items of content every single day we had
these really high-tech algorithms that
we design to look for flesh tones at
that site and that's how the Vietnamese
running girl photo got taken off
Facebook because they like automatically
spotted a naked girl I know and they
took that down you know the he's like
the Facebook I'll go doesn't know that's
an icon of fucking journalism right like
it just knows it's a naked girl so you
say you take that and now you're gonna
ask Facebook to make decisions about
about ideas right like if it's that hard
and that expensive for us to go through
and just just to keep child porn off of
Facebook think about how crazy it's
gonna be when we when we start having
entry-level people deciding what is and
is not appropriate political content
yeah it's it's not only gonna be
impossible to enforce it's it's gonna
they're gonna make a mess of it and they
will and they already are you know and I
think that's what we're seeing well
that's why Twitter so weird because you
can get away with shit on Facebook you
can say things on Facebook like Facebook
doesn't have a policy about dead naming
or Facebook doesn't have a policy about
misgendering people but they do have a
porn policy
well now Twitter you can have porn right
me then I will have to be very careful
when I give my phone to my kids
that make sure they don't open up the
fucking Twitter app yeah because I
follow a lot of dirty girls and some of
them I mean they're it's just right
there there's no warning bang right in
your face I mean it's kind of crazy
right they have such an open policy when
it comes to sex which I'm happy they do
I'm happy not even that I want to see
porn but I'm happy that their attitude
is just fine it's legal do yeah you
don't have to follow those people if you
don't like it seems like it's in the
American spirit to be I know but but it
all comes down to for me but but ya know
the the policies are completely
inconsistent to with with Twitter like
I've seen I mean I've talked to people
who have been removed from Twitter for
saying pretty
you know pretty borderline things right
like they're you know basically pretty
mild insults or something that would be
threatening only if you really splinted
hard you know
there was a guy from the Ron Paul
Institute who got this who got taken
down for instance because he was having
a fight with some you know guy who was I
think a Clinton fan I forget what it was
exactly but you'll see behavior that's
much worse from people who have another
political ilk and they will not be
removed or they might be a smaller
profile person they won't be removed so
and then what is that all about right
like if if it's only a person who has
20,000 followers or higher we're gonna
mean it's just so you just can't do it
there's just too many layers and anyway
I'm against it just generally but just
in terms of logistics it doesn't make
any sense I'm against it generally too
and when I talked to Jack and he was
explaining to me the problems with
trying to manage things at scale you
really kind of get a sense of it like oh
you guys are dealing with billions and
billions of humans using these things
right yeah yeah and and but they're
already you know in many countries
around the world they have armies of
thousands of people who go through
content to try to flag this or that kind
of political content yeah in a niche
people yeah they have you know in
Germany has like it got I forget what
the term was they had this um some
really scary sort of authoritarian word
for like filtration centers or something
like that
you know the Chinese have have armies of
people I mean I did a story about
Facebook and how it was you know teaming
up with groups like the the Atlantic
Council here in the United States
remember a couple of years ago the
Senate called in Twitter Facebook and
Google to Washington and asked them to
devise strategies for preventing the
sowing of discord you know so they
basically what's asking them to come up
with strategies for filtering out fake
news and then also certain kinds of
offensive content but you know that is a
stepping stone to what we've we've seen
in other countries I think you know and
I think it's really worrisome but but
nobody seems to care on our side of the
aisle which is which is very strange
myself it's
miles well it's a it's a censorship
issue you know and it's it's a
short-sighted thing as you said before
it's people and it's not even there's
people that do pretty egregious things
from the left like the Covington school
thing when people were saying we got to
Doc's these kids and give me their names
release their names these people are
still on Twitter to this day right
talking about kids that just happen to
have these make America great again hats
and I have a friend who used to live in
that area said like no you don't get it
like there's these stands these kids are
on the high school like field trip
there's these stands we could buy these
hats everywhere these kids bought the
hats they're they think they're being
funny these guys play the music and then
get in their face you take a photo of it
it looks like this guy's standing in
this Native American guy's face but then
you see the whole video it's no no the
Native American guy was playing his drum
walking towards him and then everybody
sorts probably it's outrage cycle it's
just so exhausting in a signaling
everyone's signaling how virtuous they
are everyone's signaling they're on the
right side everyone's signaling you know
I want names take these guys down like
you're talking about sixteen year old
kids right it's so fucking crazy and all
what is he Vic he's guilty of smiling
was that what he guilt he's guilty of
yeah no he's got a mag a hat on I mean
yeah it's crazy and the signaling thing
is crazy and you know for me the in the
in the news business a lot of people
that I know went into the when at the
journalism precisely because we didn't
want to talk about our political views
like the whole point of the job is like
you know we're just gonna tell you what
the facts are like not gonna tell you
about what I'm all about you can't do
that anymore everything's editorialize
everything is about editorializing and
signaling this is like what you're
saying you're telling people what your
stance is on things and that's that's
the opposite of what the job used to be
and this is again one of the things I've
been trying to focus on is that you know
what's exactly what you're talking about
people used to go to the news because
they wanted to find out what happened in
the world and they can't do it anymore
because everything that you turn on
every kind of content is just
editorialized content where people are
sort of telling you
where they stand on things and you know
I don't want to know that I wouldn't
know what the information yes it's so
hard how does this get resolved because
we're dealing with essentially a two
decade old problem right I mean give or
take before that before the this the
social media and before the internet and
websites this justice wasn't this wasn't
what it was you could count on the New
York Times to give you an unbiased
version of what's going on in the world
I don't necessarily know that's true
anymore no no other times has kind of
gone over to this model as well and
they're super woke they've they've
struggled with it they they were that
there was an editorial and I wrote about
this in the in the book that the in the
summer of 2016 this guy Jim Ruttenberg
wrote the sort of this piece said Trump
is testing the norms of objectivity that
was the name of the piece and basically
what he said is Trump is so bad that we
have to look like rethink what
objectivity means we have to not only be
true but true to history's judgment he
said and we have to have copious
coverage and a gret quote and aggressive
coverage so we're gonna cover Trump a
lot we're gonna cover him aggressively
and we're gonna show you we're gonna
take a stand on this issue rather than
just tell you what happened right so
rather than doing the traditional New
York Times thing of just the facts will
tell you sorted out right you figure out
we're gonna tell you you know kind of
had it what your stance should be and
you know I think where does where do we
go from here how does it get resolved I
don't know because you know unless the
the financial incentives change there
they're not going to change you know the
business used to be back when you're
talking about with New York Times and
then there were three networks and they
were all trying to get the whole
audience right so they were they were
they were doing that kind of neutral
fact-finding mission and it was working
for them financially now they can't do
that because of the internet it's it's
you're hunting for audience and little
groups yeah and they're just giving you
hyper politicized stuff because that's
the only way they can make money I don't
know how we change it I don't know how
we go you know we reverse it it's it's
it's a problem it's so interesting
though because I mean if you looked at
human interactions and if you looked at
you know dispensing news and information
and you follow trends from like the 30s
to the 40s to the 50s to the 60s to 70s
he'd be like oh well people are getting
better at this
people getting better whoa whoa what the
fuck is going on now everything is off
the rails yes two camps barking at each
other's blatant misinformation on both
sides blatant distortions of the truth
blatant editorializing of facts and
you're like hey what happened guys yeah
no it's it's it's crazy and and not not
that the news didn't have distortions
before like you think about you know we
covered up all sorts of thing you know
massacres in Cambodia a secret bombing
you know the use of Agent Orange like
it's definitely I just didn't appear in
the news in the degree it should now
though you turn on either MSNBC or Fox
and you're right you'll you'll find
something that's just totally full of
shit within five minutes usually and
that did not used to be the case you
know I think individual reporters used
to take a lot of pride in their work
you know and it's different now now now
when you make mistakes in the business
you don't you don't get bounced out of
the business in the way you used to and
that's that's really strange like only
plagiarism plagiarism still bounces you
what plagiarism case is pretty yeah
that's usually fatal right you're not
gonna usually recover from that I mean
some people have kind of near in
problems with that and they they you
know I'm not gonna yes but but um but no
but you think about people who got
stories like w the WMD thing wrong right
not only do they not get bounced out of
the business they all got promoted you
know they're like the editors of major
magazines now or you know and and so
what does that tell people in the
business well it tells you you know if
you screw up as long as you screw up
with a whole bunch of other people it's
okay you know which is not good and and
we used to have a lot of pride about
that stuff in this business and that we
now we don't anymore
you know and it it's there isn't the
shame connected with with screwing
something up that there used to be I
think there's a real danger with in
terms of social media especially in not
complying to the Constitution
not complying to the First Amendment I
think there's a real danger in that and
I don't think we recognize that danger
because I don't think we saw what social
media was until it was too late and then
by the time it was too late we had
already had these sort of standards in
place and the people that run it we're
already getting away with enforcing
their own personal bias their
ideological bias and this is this is
that when you're at this position where
you go well how does that ever get
resolved they're not going to resolve it
on their own they're still making ass
loads of money what he did is the
government resolved it well if Trump
steps in and resolves it looks like he's
trying to resolve it to save his own
political career or right to into you
know to help his supporters it's like
yeah no and and and no matter what if
Trump does anything about it
automatically everyone's gonna be
against it right right you know even
even if it's um even if there's some
sense in there somewhere people won't
won't won't get behind it but you know I
do anything about it it's gonna be a
correction time there's gonna be a gap
time where it's gonna be like that where
it's just gonna flood with people that
are just like with this newfound freedom
they're just gonna go and shit up the
town you know but I mean but how would
you how would you fix it now like that's
something because it's not only about
rules it's also about culture like
people have already they're in this
pattern of you know not saying the wrong
thing right and they don't
I think there's we're in a culture that
doesn't even really know how to deal
with free speech if we actually had it
in the same way we used to you know no
one seems to have a forecast like no
one's like well the storm is gonna last
about four years and then say there's no
there's no forecast no no one's like wow
some fucking uncharted waters right
right but if you historically the
tendency is once you have a tool that
kind of can be used to keep people on
line and for enforce compliance of ideas
and then it always ends up worsening and
becoming more and more dictatorial and
authoritarian yes again you go back to
the Soviet example like once I started
you know really exercising a lot of
control over the press and literature
and things like that it didn't get
better you
it just continued becoming more of a you
know an entrenched thing until so I
that's what I worry about I think they
were headed more in that direction yeah
I think so too
I'm not really concerned with on both
sides when people dig their heels in
ideologically the other side just gets
even more convinced they're correct oh
yeah yeah and there's no cross dialogue
of any kind not anymore
there and even now I mean it's it's
interesting you had you had Bernie
Sanders on your show and Sanders all
it's Sanders is one of the few
politicians left who has this idea that
we should talk to everybody like there's
there are no illegitimate audiences out
there there know and like you know
that's my job as a politician is to try
to convince you of things but that's not
normal in the Democratic Party anymore I
mean Elizabeth Warren you know has made
a big thing about not going on Fox and
about having certain people taken taken
off Twitter and yeah and and I think
that's increasingly the the sort of line
of thought in mainstream Democratic
Party thought now is is that we're just
gonna rule out whatever whatever that is
47% of the electorate we're just not
gonna talk to them anymore
right right yeah I I don't know how
that's that can possibly be a successful
political strategy then what and what
the point is you know I yeah no no it
doesn't make any sense I was reading
something where people are going after
tells he gathered for being on Tucker
Carlson she's like I'll talk to
everybody and I'm glad she does and by
the way it's like it's hard for her
because she's kind of an outside
candidate it's hard for her to get time
on these other networks and so they want
to punish her for being on Tucker
Carlson's and then they have this you
know reductionist view of who he is he's
a white supremacist like to all she
supports white supremacists she goes on
a white supremacist show it okay is that
what he is really what he is and using
its knee a lot more than that there's a
lot going on there right you guys are
fucking with life you know you're
fucking with the reality of life and
you're saying it in these sentences
you're printing it out in these
paragraphs as
and you sending it out there
irresponsibly and it's just really
strange that people don't understand the
repercussions of that yeah that's
something we talked about on our podcast
easily it's all the time is that the
this it's a catch-22 right like you you
don't invite somebody like tulsi gabbard
on to CNN MSNBC where you they're kind
of excluded from the same platform the
other politicians get so they go to
other platforms
all right and then you say oh you went
on that platform so you're illegitimate
yes you know what do you want them to do
like you know what they do the same
thing with people who go on RT for
instance right oh well you're helping
the Russians because you went on RT well
they're that's because you didn't invite
them on any I mean yeah you their people
are gonna try to talk to anybody they
can to spread their ideas and that that
that kind of propaganda thing is is
pretty constant now in the use of the
term terms like what white supremacists
with Tucker Carlson I mean there there
are a million terms now that you use to
just kind of throw at people and what
they're trying to do is create this ik
factor around people yeah right like
once you get someone gets a label
associated with them then nobody wants
to be associated with that person all
right Ryan they quickly kind of die out
of the public scene and that's I think
that's really bad too you know it's it's
like a it's it's just an
anti-intellectual way of dealing with
things and I and I think it's it's not
good it's weird that it's so prevalent
it's weird that there's so few
proponents of a more you know
open-minded way of thinking right yeah
and just to take the gap we had we had
Tulsa together on our show too and
immediately we got accused what do you
love Assad right do you want a bomb
Syrian sure you want to keep murder
Syrian children no I you know she's a
presidential candidate and we want to
talk to want to hear what she has to say
but they immediately go to the
maximalist interpretation of everything
and then they're what they're basically
saying when they ask you those questions
are do you want to wear that label too
because she's got it already
so if you have a run again you're gonna
you're you're gonna have that label and
people they see that you know and and so
you know people who have who don't have
a big following and who are worried
about their careers
in about you know the money and
advertisers and stuff like that they
they think twice about you know
interviewing that person the next time
yeah and here's another way to get that
speech exactly and again I don't know
how you get out of it you know and I
mean I've experienced some blowback I
guess but it doesn't hasn't worked yet
right you know I mean it's not real it's
just like it's just words like okay well
but yeah and and but you're handling it
the right way back I think people your
audience is rewarding you for for not
not bowing to it
you know and I think that more people if
they took that example and said I'm not
gonna listen to what the the pack says
about this I'm not gonna be afraid of
being called a name you know fuck that
I'm gonna talk to you I want to talk to
and I'm gonna gonna head you know
explore whatever ideas I want to explore
then the this kind of stuff wouldn't be
as effective so yeah so easy to do to
people it's so easy for them to deep
platform people yes always and shadow
banning and all this other weird shit
that's going on yeah they're channeling
people and and pushing people into these
areas of their platforms that makes them
less accessible and I know where it
comes from you know I was I was young
and politically active once you know you
you want to change the world you want to
make it a better place so you're in
college and you don't have any power you
don't have any way to input make
something into legislation you know what
I mean yeah so what do you do you you
know social media gives you the illusion
that you're having an impact in the
world by you know maybe getting somebody
deep platformed or taking off Twitter or
something like that it feels like it's
political action that yeah but it's not
you know what I mean it's it's it's
something that they that is open to
people to do but it's not the same as
you know getting 60 Congress 60 members
of the Senate to to raise taxes on a
corporation that's been evading them for
20 years you know what I mean like
that's that's real action this you know
getting some random person taken off the
internet is just not change
you know but but people feel like it is
and they wanna they want to do the right
thing so I get it but no it's it's not
you know put real political action I
don't think no it's fucking gross yeah
and it just lead it's there's so much of
it on there's so little logic also and
you this must be a personal thing for
you but it's this is the unfunniest time
in American history
like yes no because you rewarded for for
stepping outside the box that's true in
a big way mm-hmm like yeah you mean Dave
Chappelle gets attacked but guess what
he also gets rewarded in a huge way run
he goes on stage now people go ape shit
that's true and part of the reason why
they go fucking bonkers is because they
know that this guy doesn't give a fuck
and he's one of the rare ones who
doesn't give a fuck so when he goes up
there you know if he thinks something
crazy about whatever it is whatever
protected group or whatever idea that
he's not supposed to explore that's not
gonna stop him at all he's gonna tell
you exactly what he thinks about those
things regardless of all this woke
blowback he's not he doesn't care right
so because of that he's rewarded even
more and same thing with Bill burr
same thing with a lot of comics I
experienced it with my own jokes sure
did more controversial bits getting
people more fired up now they love it
because everyone's smothered their
smothered by human resources and
smothered by office politics and you're
smothered by social discourse
restrictions and he's don't feel like
you can express yourself any more this
is true and and and all people also
don't have a they feel like they're
being watched all the time yeah things
like that kind of can't let it all hang
out anywhere right and and so that's
yeah they they do feel incredibly like
repressed and under the gun yeah I think
that that's that's true yeah I just I
feel like it I mean I'm not a comic but
if but I just imagine it must be a more
challenging environment it's more
challenging but more rewarding to my
friend ari said it best he said this is
a great time for comedy because comedies
dangerous again right that's true yeah
that's true yeah it's kind of goes back
to like a Lenny Bruce era right
when you know you could kind of
completely freak people out with a
couple of saying a couple of sure yeah
for good or bad or prior yeah well you
like you saw it with like louis c.k
right louis ck's under the microscope
now that joke that he made about
parkland is absolutely a louis c.k joke
if you followed him throughout his
career what was the joke again i'm sorry
the joke was why am i listening to these
parklands survivors why are you
interesting cuz you pushed some fat kid
in the way like see you're laughing
right like that is a louis c.k joke he's
saying something fucked up you're not
supposed to say that is throughout his
goddamn career he's done that that's
always done but after the you know
jerking off in front of women all that
stuff and him coming out in admitting it
and then taking a bunch of time off now
he's a target right now he does
something like that and they're like oh
he's all right now like no this is what
he's always done right he's always
taking this sort of contrarian outside
the box fucked up but hilarious take on
things and that bit
unfortunately because it was released by
someone who made a youtube video of it
he didn't get a chance to he was gone
for ten months and he had only done a
couple sets when he was fleshing these
ideas out i guarantee you he would have
turned that idea into a brilliant bit
but he never got the chance because it
was just it was set out there in the
wild when it was a baby he was mauled
down by wolves it needed to be heard
right yeah i mean that's what a bit of
these bits they they grow and they
develop and that was a controversial
idea that we're supposed to think that
someone's interesting just because they
survived a tragedy and his take is like
no no no no you're not interesting right
you're fucking boring you're annoying
get off my get off my TV and a lot of us
have felt that way sure he just the way
he said it was easy to take and put in
you know out of context put it in quotes
and turn him into an asshole well yeah
but that's what comedy is right it's
it's taking what people the the thoughts
that everybody has and vocalizing that
the end that forbidden thing in a way
that people can kind of you know come
together over right i mean i think that
was a lot a lot of what richard pryor
schemer was about like he took a lot of
the sort
comfortable race problems right and he
just kind of put them out there and both
white people and black people laughed at
it yeah right like together you know and
that that was what was good about it yes
but if you can't if if people are afraid
to vocalize those things that they think
it's gonna you know ruin their career is
you know that that makes it more
interesting right it's more hype more
high stakes but if you can navigate
those waters and get to the promised
land of the punchline it's even more
rewarding right but you just have to
explain yourself better you have to have
better points you have to have you have
to have a better structure to your
material where you while the the people
who may find your idea objectionable
they you you coax them like hold my hand
I'm gonna take you through the woods
we're gonna be okay right follow me and
boom isn't that funny
right right right you have to navigate
it skillfully and you have to navigate
it thoughtfully and you have to really
have a point you can't have a half-assed
point but you can't have a situation
where it's fatal to be off by a little
bit I know like there was a writer that
I loved growing up a Soviet writer named
Isaac Babel Stalin ended up shooting him
but he gave a speech about I think it
was in 1936 you know to to a Soviet
writers collective and he said you know
people say that we don't have as much
freedom as we used to but actually all
of all that the you know the the
Communist Party is done is Britta's
prevented us from writing badly the only
thing that's outlawed now is writing
badly right and everybody laughed but he
was actually saying something pretty
serious which is that you can't write
well unless you can you know screw up
too you know like on the way to to being
creative in a good way you have to miss
yes you know and if missing is not
allowed and there's high punishment for
missing you're not going to get art yeah
you're not gonna get revolution you're
not gonna get all these things well and
in comedy it's particularly important
because you have to work it out in front
of people absolutely yeah no I used to
sit at a comedy club in
hatton when I was like in college that
you know they would try out their
material like on a Wednesday right you
know early and that was always the most
interesting time for me well like
they're trying south stuff out and a lot
of it wasn't so good but you know it was
interesting right and you just can't
have a situation where people feel like
you know one wrong word is gonna ruin
their career yeah you know yeah I don't
know but there's also people that are
wolves and they're trying to take out
that little baby joke wandering through
the woods they they want that feeling of
being able to take someone down right
and that that's you know that's you're
getting that now too which is just and
so now because that there's like yonder
bags at the improv where I'm performing
tonight they usually on their bags you
have to put yourself on the bag when you
go in there so you can't record things
yonder bag yes it's a company called
yonder it's just so strange it's like
all the shows I did with Chappelle he
uses yonder bags and an idea is to
prevent people from from filming and
recording and you know and then
eventually putting your stuff out there
uh-huh
well you know look I'm kind of all for
that I mean I've seen this with
politicians on the campaign trail like
they are so tight now in ways that they
used to not be well you saw the Donald
Trump thing Donald Trump jr. where Trump
jr. what they didn't want him to do they
wanted him to do a Q&A and he didn't
want to do it so they booed him the
right wing people uh-huh bullying him
they're yelling out Q&A Q&A because they
want to be able to talk oh I see it'll
say something to him and these are
people that were like far-right
far-right people they just didn't think
he was being right enough or he was
playing the game wrong or he wasn't
wasn't letting them complain to him
right right yeah yeah now that's bad and
and and politicians are aware of that
now and they're they're constantly aware
that they're on film everywhere and so
they're you know a thousand percent less
interesting because yeah they're there I
mean I remember covering campaign in
2004 and I was I saw Dennis Kucinich
give a speech somewhere and he was going
from I think Maine to New Hampshire and
I said can I get a ride back to New
Hampshire he's like yeah sure so you
know it takes me on the
and he like takes his shoes off he's
like cracking jokes and everything and
like eating udon noodles or something
political candidates would not do that
now like they'd be afraid to be off the
record with you right you know right
right and and they're afraid to be
around people and just behave like
people you know which is not good I
don't think it's the weirdest time ever
to be a politician because it's it's
basically you've got this one guy who
made it through being hugely flawed
mm-hmm and just going ah
the fucking locker room talk and it was
like well yeah it is locker room talk
yes and then it works and he gets
through and he wins and so you've got
him who seems like he's so greasy like
nothing sticks to him and then you have
everyone else who's terrified of any
slight misstep yeah totally and and you
can't replicate the way Trump does this
you know Trump Trump is he was born this
way there's like a thing going on in his
head like he is you know pathologically
driven to behave in a certain way and
he's not gonna be cowed by the way you
know people are but socially because he
just doesn't think that way
no no he's and but that's no one else is
gonna behave like that what do you think
about him and speed what do you think I
do all that
does he take speed you mean yeah so did
you ever see his speech after Super
Tuesday yeah that's the one we was
slurry it was that wasn't always ramped
up he was very I just say watch that
speech you know we're not supposed to
draw conclusions about but you know what
what my big lament pharmaceutically with
somebody but I would say just watched on
Donald Trump's performance after the
results of the Super Tuesday roll in in
2016 let's hear some of that firstly
chris Christie is hilarious she's
talking about wages I've been poor and
everything's poor and everything's doing
badly but we're gonna make it she's been
there for so long I mean if she hasn't
straighten it out by now she's not gonna
straighten it out in the next four years
it's just gonna become worse and worse
she wants to make America whole again
and I'm trying to find what is
yeah I mean it's just I already go back
and look but yeah but he got he went on
and on also that the Christie factor was
really funny with that because he was
him he's just sitting back there going
what am i doing what am i doing with my
life
look at his face literally you can see
his brain wander well how the fuck did
this happened I was gonna be the man
like I was the goddamn president it was
gonna happen for me I could see it
happening I saw him in uh in Ames Iowa
basically standing alone in the park
waiting for people to try to shake his
hand you know yeah it was pretty bad
like you see that and but you do you
have a theory about Trump and speed yeah
yeah yeah I think he's on some stuff
mm-hmm I think first of all I know so
many journalists that are on speed I
know so many people that are on adderall
and it's very effective it gives you
confidence it gives you a delusional
perspective
well you get a delusional state of
confidence mm-hmm it makes people think
they can do anything it's basically a
low-level meth it's very similar to
methamphetamine chemically sure and
people are in it yeah it is tell me what
it's like because I haven't done it yeah
I mean I've done speed to I mean you
know all those all those drugs are yeah
they're like baby baby speed basically
yeah and you're absolutely right I think
people who it's not good for a writer
because writing is one of these things
where one of the most important things
is being able to step back and and ask
am I really my full of shit here is you
know are my jokes as funny as I think
they are like right if once that
mechanism starts to go wrong you know
you're really lost yes
writer right because you're just you're
not in front of an audience you're with
yourself in front of a computer so I
don't think I don't think speed is a
great drug I mean you get a lot of stuff
done so that's that's good but but ya
know I I think there's a lot of people
who are on it now and also a lot of us
because kids come up through school and
they're on it just you know and they
they get used to it so I you know I have
kids I wouldn't dream of giving giving
them any of those drugs you know I think
it's crazy yeah I do - did you see you
saw the I'm sure you saw the sudafed
picture - right no what was that Trump
was sitting in his office eating a
was that famous photo where he's like I
love Hispanics where he's eating a taco
bowl at Trump Tower and behind him
there's an open drawer and in that open
drawer as boxes of sudafed and sudafed
sort of yeah I mean you it gives you a
low-level buzz and the I mean this is
why I used to have to go to CVS to buy
this stuff used to have to give you
drivers I guess you still do they have
to give your driver's license because
they want to make sure you're not
cooking meth right lying like 10 boxes
of it at a time and cooking up a batch
yeah if you're like in a you know holler
in Kentucky and you go in and get 20 20
boxes of sudafed and pretty much people
know what you're doing there
yeah that's really funny did he so he
had a bunch of sudafed oh yes yeah in
his box and you know there was that one
reporter that was that guy's name again
who had a hole he wrote a series of
tweets which he eventually wound up
taking down by the way Jamie I can't
find those fucking tweets he wrote a
series of tweets that there was a very
specific Duane Reade pharmacy where
Trump got amphetamines for something
that was in quotes called metabolic
disorder Kurt I can Walled fun Kurt yeah
1982 Trump started taking amphetamine
derivatives abused them only supposed to
take two for 25 days stayed on it for
eight years really now is he full of
shit
so yeah Kurt I can Walt isn't
interesting because he's written some
really good books about finance he wrote
a book about Enron he wrote a book about
Prudential it was really really good
then when I was starting out writing
with Wall Street I was like wow these
books are really incredibly well
researched but he had some stuff in the
in 2016 where like that's an example of
something as a reporter I see that
Michael where's that coming from
you know and because you in journalism
you can't really accuse somebody of
certain things unless it's backed up to
the enth degree so right he had a couple
of things that I thought I you know
would be concerned about
he took a leap I don't know I mean look
that's what I'm Sam stepped outside of
the journalistic boundaries of what you
can absolutely prove and not prove
and took a leap and that's why I think
he took down the duane reade pharmacy he
didn't take it down oh it's still there
as well there wasn't okay there it is
there was another thing about a well
he's got the milligrams per day Wow
where's this from I don't know it
doesn't show it or anything but I
believe he eats drug use a copy of it
from someone or talk to the doctor drug
was diethyl propane 75 milligrams a day
prescription filled Duane Reade on 57th
Street Manhattan not that I know things
so you know get the doctor's name to dr.
Joseph greenberg I countered with
medical records a white house admitted
to me only a short time for diet that he
took it when he was not located and
that's fun he says I countered with
medical records they cut me off Wow yeah
I mean you know one thing I will say is
that when you're when you're covering
stories sometimes you hear things and
and you know they're pretty solid but
you put you it's not quite reportable
because the person won't put their name
on it
or you know you're not a hundred percent
sure that the document is a real
document maybe it's a photocopy and that
that can be very very tough for
reporters cuz they know something's true
but they can't write they can't and and
social media has eliminated a barrier
that we used to have we used to have to
go through editors and fact checkers and
now you know you're on Twitter or you
can just kind of you know right right or
you can hint at something you know and I
think that's that's something you don't
want to get into as a reporter too much
you know yeah that's a weird use of
social media right it's like sort of a
slippery escape from journalistic rules
yeah exactly yeah you know or you can
you can insinuate that somebody did X Y
& Z or you can you can use terms that
are a little bit sloppy like you know
again but it seems like they did admit
that he took that stuff forth ah yes so
if you have the the white house
you know spokesperson saying that they
he took it for a short time for a diet
then you find that's a reportable story
right yeah yeah well I think when people
get into that shit it's very hard for
them to get out of that shit mm-hmm
that's a the the speed train and I've
seen many people hop on it it's got a
lot of stops nobody seems to get off
yeah not with
keep intact right yeah no it's uh that's
that's not a good old he's so old he
doesn't exercise he eats fast food and
he gets so much fucking energy I and I
mean people want to think he's this
super person you know but maybe he's on
speed maybe yeah I mean he's just gonna
collapse turn over and collapse one not
can go a lot longer on speed than people
think maybe if you just do it the right
way but isn't that kind of the way
history always works it's like again not
to go back to the Russian thing but all
the various terrible leaders of Russia
like they all died of natural causes
when they were 85 right whereas you know
in a country where people get murdered
and die of industrial accidents and bad
health when they're you know 30 all the
time right but the worst people in the
country make it to very old age and you
know and die and in their alcoholics and
maybe that's the thing right maybe maybe
you know he has the worst diet in the
world and maybe he's on speed and maybe
it's also your perception of how you
interface with the world maybe because
he's not this introspective guy that's
really worried about how people see him
and feel about him maybe he doesn't feel
you know whatever whether it's
sociopathy or whatever it is he doesn't
feel the bad feelings they don't get in
there yeah and this he doesn't have the
the stress impact right right and that's
the thing about speed apparently it
because of the fact that it makes you
feel delusional and it makes you feel
like you're the fucking man like don't
worry about what other people think in
losers who cares right right yeah you
know that was why not by greenly why not
by greenland yeah that came out of
what's wrong with that we bought Alaska
well we based it Alaska yeah yeah we
were supposed to give it back but we we
didn't it seems like Greenland would be
a good place to scoop up especially as
things get warmer right yeah exactly and
the fuckin tweet that he made when he
put the Trump Tower I promise not to do
this and have a giant Trump Tower in the
middle of Greenland I was laughing my
ass off like love or hate that is
hilarious his trolling skills are
top-notch very good they're they're
fantastic oh he knows how to fuck with
people when he starts calling people
crazy or gives him a nickname like it's
so good because like it sticks yes I
mean part of me wants
see a trump button race next year just
for that reason this is because the the
abuse will be on below I mean nothing
I'm encouraging that necessarily but
this is a spectacle it's gonna be
unbelievable you can tell that he he is
salivating at the idea of by muscleman
Biden to me is like having a flashlight
with a dying battery and going for a
long hike in the woods is not going to
work out it's not gonna make it
yeah no he's he's so faded he you know
he has his moments on the campaign trail
where he'll be speaking and you know
these guys do the same speech over and
over again so they can kind of do it on
cruise control but every now and then
he'll he'll stop in the middle of it and
you this look of terror comes over like
where am i yeah you know what town am I
in you know like he he confused he
thought he was in Vermont when he was in
New Hampshire I'm sorry
yeah he was he got those states confused
like what's not to love about Vermont he
was in New Hampshire you know that that
can happen obviously but it happens to
him a lot but he's clearly old yeah you
know I mean he's not much older than
Trump right but he needs to get on the
same pills yeah yeah actually that would
be a thing we should get a GoFundMe to
buy it imagine yeah they just filled him
up with steroids and and just jacked him
up with them feta means had it going
after Trump I really think he needs
something like that he whatever he's
doing on the natch it's not working
right yeah yeah he's too tired needs a
little bit of enhancement it's not gonna
work if he if he gets the nomination the
Democrats are fucked I just I don't see
I don't see him I don't see him
withstanding the barrage that Trump was
gonna throw at him Trump's gonna take
him out like Tyson took out Marvis
Fraser just got was a yeah it was a bomb
that was a bad fight it's gonna be that
kind of fight right bomb on him yeah
doesn't have a chance
he can't stand with that guy he doesn't
have a cheese to he's also too impressed
with himself
yes he's too used to people deferring
yes like he thinks like the things he
says makes sense and are cool and are
profound when they're just
land right he's just serving bad
meatloaf and he's like tada and you're
like no this is bad meatloaf yeah that's
how he got to be vice president by being
just bland enough yes right to get
whatever constituency Obama was trying
to get but you saw that exchange when he
called Trump an existential threat
earlier this year and Trump basically he
just went off on him you know Joe Joe's
a dummy he's not the guy he used to be
like you know yeah that's gonna be
everyday yep you know every minute of
every day and then other people gonna
chime in because they love it people
love piling on
oh yeah and his fans oh my god he's the
asshole king where people never had a
representative before there's a lot of
assholes out there like that where's my
guy Brian finally BAM look at this area
the asshole made it to the White House
holy shit I can be an asshole now the
president's an asshole he wants me to be
an asshole
oh yeah totally
oh that's mean that that's gonna wear on
a guy I mean if you've been doing one of
trumps rallies no chance yeah now I
can't wear a rubber nose and fucking
I've covered it and what they're like
they're unbelievable first of all the
the the t-shirts are amazing you know it
like Trump 2020 fuck your feelings you
know what I mean like Trump is the
Punisher you know it's like the Punisher
skull with the thing like it's it's it's
it's amazing and in the crowds it's like
totally out of idiocracy yeah is there a
fucking Punisher skull with a Trump wig
on it yeah yeah oh my goodness I'm gonna
have to get one of those I mean he's
like there's oh it's a red white and
blue American flag skull Punishers style
with a Trump Trump wig on it so I saw
that I need that sure son it wasn't the
one red white and blue one it was the
blood it was a moment to black and I saw
that on my god I'm like an
eight-year-old kid
all right it was like a mother with her
little kids and the Trenton Trump
Punisher skull but do they
that shirt on Amazon can finally show
I'm sure being sold everywhere I mean
the the the merch is he is he's the most
t-shirt able president history I mean
Trump 2020 grabbed him by the pussy
again boy I mean that they they like
embrace that shit it the the trolling
aspect of all of it is like the fun part
for his crowd so you are what they get
off on is how how freaked out you know
quote-unquote liberal audiences yeah by
their appearance their attitude and
everything and they lean into it you
know that I mean which is interesting
because you know that kind of like group
camaraderie thing that you don't really
find that on and then a campaign trail
on the Democratic side it's different I
mean it's a different vibe entirely but
yeah it's crazy
well it's dumb and that's the thing that
he's sort of like captured is this place
where you can be dumb like it's fun to
be dumb and say grab her by the pussy
like everybody knows that's kind of a
dumb thing to say public of course but
you can say it there because he said it
yay you know build that wall build that
wall yeah right like it's like it's this
chance to like shut off any possibility
of getting over like 70 rpm like you
we're gonna cut this bitch off at 70
there's no high function here cut it off
at 70 and just let it rip right yeah no
totally totally and and it's funny the
way you say that they'll never buddy
knows it's a dumb thing to say right
like I would talk to people at the
crowds and you know I'll talk like a 65
year old grandmother and you say do you
agree with everything in Trump says and
like almost the last they all say well I
wish he hadn't said this particular
thing right but they're all they're
chanting you know what I mean like
they're all into it and all in the
crowds are they're so huge like I was in
Cincinnati and I was late to one of his
events and I made the mistake that I
couldn't Drive in because they blocked
off all the bridges if you've never been
there right you know I was in the
Kentucky side so I had to walk like
three miles away and like walk over a
bridge and I thought I was going
the only person there and it was like
something out of a sci-fi movie was just
like a line of Magha hats like extending
over a bridge all the way into Kentucky
like a mile down a road I mean they had
eternally thousands of people to get
into this event it was it's incredible
and that people did see it was like 17
or 18 thousand it was the you know they
freaked out what they what arena that is
it's the it's the indoor one he's the
only one that can pull those kind of
crowds here oh yeah
there's no one no one can do that you
know Bernie and Warren have had big
crowds Bernie had a he had a 25,000 that
person crowd in Queens a couple of weeks
ago you'll see crowds that big but
Trump's crowds are just dating back to
2016 they're just consistently huge
every everywhere and and again this gets
back to what I was saying before all the
reporters saw this and they all saw that
Hillary was having real trouble getting
four and five thousand people into her
events and so we all you know we were
all talking to each other like that's
gotta be in it a thing that's gonna you
know play a role in the election
eventually but nobody kind of brought it
up or they they explained it away well I
think they felt like if you discussed it
and brought it up that somehow or
another you got you were contributing to
Trump being Trump winning right but
that's a that's a fallacious way to look
at it yeah because
covering up the reality of the situation
I think created a false sense of
security for Democrats and they thought
they were gonna win by a landslide yeah
that's what everybody was saying but it
wasn't true I mean the overseer there
were serious red flags throughout the
campaign for Hillary and people I think
were too afraid to to bring up a lot of
this stuff because they didn't want to
be seen it's helping Trump but that's
not what the business is about we're not
supposed to be you know helping back
both factors don't have you know
political indications we're just
supposed to tell you what we see how do
you get journalism back on track is it
possible at this point I mean it is a
lost art is it gonna be like calligraphy
I mean I think yeah yeah exactly
Japanese calligraphy you have to pass it
down through masters yeah maybe that's
that's gonna be able to adjourn
Elizabeth like I mean
there's two things that could happen one
is that like if you created something
like neither side news right now right
and just like a that's a great name
yeah like a network where it was a bunch
of people who just kind of did the job
without the editorializing I think it
would have it would probably have a lot
of followers right away it would make
money and nobody has clued into that yet
like if if some canny entrepreneur were
to do that and that were to bring back
the business that or you know journalism
has always been kind of quasi subsidized
in this country you know going back to
the Pony Express newspapers were carried
free across to the west right the US
Postal Service said that the original
19th the Communications Act in 1934 the
idea was you know we you could lease the
public airwaves but you had to do
something in the public interest so you
you could make money doing sports and
entertainment but you could take a loss
on news and so it was kind of quasi
subsidized in that way but that doesn't
exist anymore there's no subsidy really
for news anymore I'm not a story sure I
agree with that
that being the way to go but there has
to be something because right now the
financial pressure to be bad is just too
it's too great you know like there's no
if there's no way to I started going on
this but I came when I came from the
business when the money started getting
tighter the first thing they got rid of
were the long-form investigative
reporters like you couldn't just hire
somebody to work on a story for three
months anymore because he needed them to
do content all the time then they got
rid of the fact checkers you know which
had another serious problem you know and
and so now the money's so tight that he
just had these people doing clickbait
all the time and they're not doing real
reporting and so they they have to fix
the money problem I don't know how they
would do that how much has it changed
recently because like when that piece of
the stuff that you wrote about the
banking crisis was my favorite coverage
of it and the the most relatable and
understandable and the way you spelled
everything out could you do that today
yeah but I think it would be harder
because that's not that long it's it
really isn't it's only you know that was
I really stopped doing that and like
2014 or so five years out but the the
big differences social media has had a
huge impact on a ten
and span so you know I was writing like
7,000 word articles about credit default
swaps and stuff like that I was trying
really hard to make it interesting for
people you know you use jokes and yeah
humor and stuff like that but now people
would not have the energy to really
fight through that you'd have to make it
shorter
even TV you know they people you don't
see that kind of reporting that in-depth
you know kind of process reporting where
you're teaching people something because
people just tune out right away that
they need just a quick hit a headline
and a couple of facts so yeah there's a
big problem with audience right which
we've trained audiences to consume the
news differently and all they really
want to get is a take now you know it's
like the everything's like an ESPN hot
take writings you know so that's easy
the counter to that though is this what
we're doing right now like these are
always these long-ass conversations
they're hours and hours long and there's
a bunch of them out there now it's not
like mine is an isolated one and there's
so many podcast that cover and some of
them cover them like in a cereal form
like the drop out was that there was a
they called it yes it was the drop out
was the one about that woman who created
that fake blood company yes right you
know Susan was her name Elizabeth that's
right Sarah knows yeah the the
completely fraudulent company that was
an amazing podcast absolutely that if I
read it I probably you're right I
probably would have liked boring right I
probably Bandhan it earlier but
listening to it in podcast form
listening to actual conversations from
these people listening to people's
interpretations of these confrontations
listening to people that were there at
the time telling you know telling
stories about when they knew things were
weird and when they started noticing the
there's like tests that were incorrect
that they were covering up that kind of
shit like you can do that now with
something like this and I think that one
of the good things about podcasts too is
you don't need anybody
to tell you that you could you could
publish this yeah no absolutely I think
you're you're right and I think formats
like this reveal that the news companies
are wrong about about some things about
audiences like they they think that
people can't handle an in-depth
discussion about things they think that
audiences only want to watch 30 seconds
of something they don't they're
interested that they do have curiosity
about things it's just it's very
difficult to convince people in the news
business especially to take chances on
that kind of content you know they'll do
it for a podcast I'll do it for a
documentary but but for for the news
they just they're making things shorter
and shorter and shorter you know I was
really lucky to have an editor who you
know understood the idea that we have to
get into this and in depth or also it's
going to be meaningless the program
right that's pretty rare you know for
the most part they you don't see them
taking that kind of bet anymore but
maybe podcasts will help people Punk
puncture that but the flip side of that
is that they're not they're not
investing and stuff like like
International News in the way they used
to when I came up in the business every
Bureau every big Network had bureaus in
every major city around the world you
know Rome Berlin Moscow whatever it is
right and they had newsrooms full of
people who are you know out there
gathering news now there's none of that
right because they figured out they can
make the money just as easily by having
somebody sit in an office and in
Washington or New York and just you know
link to something and have a take on
something you know so the I think the
news is getting worse podcasts are
getting more interesting maybe maybe
there's a happy medium they can find in
between well documentaries as well
documentaries are commercially viable if
it's a great subject like like your good
examples that wild wild country one or
you know I didn't even know that that
cult existed I had no idea what what
happened up there and then so this
documentary sheds light on it does it
over like I think it was like six
episodes or something that'd be fucking
amazing and it made a shit ton of money
yet though we're making a murderer was
another one
is really good like they you take
because that's something that happens
all over the place you have these
Criminal Justice cases and they're you
know terrible and justice has happened
and you know if you really tell the
whole story and make characters out of
people and invest the time and yeah tell
it tell it well people still like really
good storytelling but but I think within
the news business they just they have
this belief they're hard-headed believe
that people can't handle difficult
material and I don't know why that is
you know yeah I don't know why it is
either it's I mean I think there's a
large number of people that aren't
satisfied intellectually by a lot of the
stuff they're being spoon-fed and they
think that because the the vast majority
of things that are commercially viable
are short attention span things I think
it's like this real sloppy way of
thinking non risk-taking way of thinking
they're like well this is how people
consume things you got to give them like
music video style editing or they just
tune out but there has always been a
thirst for actual long-form
conversations yeah you don't an actual
real in-depth exploration of something
in a very digestible way like one of the
good things about doing your podcast for
this podcast any podcast really is that
you could listen to it while you're
commuting you listen to it and it'll
actually give you something that
occupies your mind and interest you
during what would normally be dead time
right yeah and and you're absolutely
right about the the thirst for something
else now and again I think when people
turn on most news products they're
getting this predictable set of things
and that doesn't quench that thirst for
them they're not they're not being
challenged in any way they're not seeing
different sides of a topic you know
you're not approaching covering a
subject honestly by genuinely you know
exploring the idea that so that people
you may have thought were bad or right
or people you may have thought are good
or wrong it's just all predictable so I
think people are fleeing to other things
now right they just they want they want
to just get the story they don't they
don't want to have a whole lot of
you know editorializing on top of it you
know and and yeah and and they I think
also there's a lot of under estimating
of audiences going out there and like we
we just think that they can't handle
stuff when they can yeah they're they're
interested but we we just take it for
granted that they can't do it maybe I'm
guilty of that too you know because I've
been doing this for so long but but yeah
it does happen I don't think people have
changed that much yeah no probably
probably not it's just um it's just
difficult you know maybe it's also we
don't have the the stamina to to stick
with a story than the same way that we
used to like now if a story doesn't get
a million hits right away we don't we
don't return to the subject mmm you know
you think about stories like Watergate
like when Woodward Bernstein first did
those stories there were complete duds
like everybody thought they were on the
wrong path they were the only people who
were covering it and a lot of those
stories kind of flailed around you know
what I mean they they didn't get the big
response and it wasn't until much later
that it became this hot thing that
everybody was watching and you wouldn't
so that wouldn't happen now right like
if reporters were on a story if it
didn't catch fire within the first
couple of passes your editors probably
gonna take you off it now what was that
story that the New York Times worked on
about Trump and they worked on it for a
long time and it was released and went
in and out of the news cycle in a matter
of days and nobody gave a fuck the yeah
the one about his finances yes and it
was like a 36,000 word story it was like
unbelievable it was it was like six
times as big as and is the biggest story
I've ever written in my life they
thought it was a giant takedown right
yeah and it was it your it was like a
36-hour thing if that right and maybe
maybe yeah and people kind of said oh
and this is amazing it's got all this
information in it and it just fell flat
you know and that's and the important
thing about that is that news companies
see this and they say wow we invested
all this time and money we put our you
know really good reporters on this we
gave them six months to work on
something and it got the same amount of
hits
you know some story about you know a
carp with a human face that was filmed
in China you know what I mean like
something that we you know we picked off
the wires and you stuck it in page 11
whatever it was so then that what that
tells in the incentives now are let's
not bother listen let's not do six
months invested investigations of
anything anymore because what's the
point we're gonna get as many hits doing
something dumb right now so they just
don't take the risk anymore
god it's so crazy that that's the
incentive now that it's all clicks it's
such a strange trap to fall into and
there's also the the other thing which
is the the litigation problem you know
that and this is another thing I wrote
about in the book is that there was a
series of cases in the in the 80s and
90s where reporters kind of took on big
companies and I'm at the Chiquita banana
thing that the Cincinnati Enquirer did
remember the movie The The Insider
I'm up Ryan and Williams tobacco company
CBS right there was another one with
Monsanto in Florida where some Fox
reporters went after Monsanto and they
so they all got sued and it costs their
companies a ton of money and
reputational risk and so after that what
news company said is why take on a big
company that can fight back and throw a
lawsuit at us and what do we win by that
we're not gonna get more audience from
that you know so now if you watch
consumer reporting you know what like a
small TV station usually it's they're
gonna bang on some little Chinese
restaurant that has roaches or something
like that they're not going to go after
Monsanto or the or or you know Chiquita
banana because there's no point that
it's too much of a risk so they just
don't do it and that's another thing
that's what's gone wrong with reporting
you know they they've the economic
benefit of going after a powerful
adversary isn't there anymore so they
don't do it and that's that's a problem
now clearly you've seen a giant change
in journalism from when you first
started to where we are now do you have
any fears or concerns about the future
of it I mean this is what you do for a
living what is your what are your
thoughts on it
we're
you think it's going I mean I'm really
worried about it because because you you
need the journalists to kind of exist
apart from politics and to be a check on
everything I think that the whole idea
of having a Fourth Estate is that it's
separate from the political parties
right I mean I don't work for the DNC
it's not my job to write bad news about
Donald Trump right that's the DNC's job
you know they've put up press releases
about them and if people see us as being
indistinguishable from political parties
or being all editorial then we don't
have any power anymore like that's
that's the first thing that the press
doesn't have any ability to influence
people if people don't see us as
independent and truthful and all those
things and so that's what I really worry
about right now is like people won't
will stop listening to the media they'll
still tune us out they don't trust us
anymore like Walter Cronkite from you
know 1972 the Gallup poll agency found
he was the most trusted man in America
and that was true also in 1985 like for
13 consecutive years he was the most
trusted
there's no reporter in America who's
true who's the press the trusted man in
America
yeah with it doesn't it yeah exactly so
people think of us as clowns and you
know entertainment figures and so how
are you gonna how are you gonna impact
the world if people think you're a joke
you know and then that's why that's what
I really worry about we don't have any
institutional self-respect anymore
you know we don't we don't feel like we
have to you know challenge audiences
challenge challenge powerful people you
know it's it's just a bunch of talking
points and that's that's not what the
business is about so I worry about it
and you know I think there are a lot of
journalists who say the same thing we
all kind of talk to talk amongst
ourselves which is you know the the the
job as we knew it is kind of being
phased out and changed into something
else and and that's not that's not a
good thing you know because people do
need in tough times people need need the
press
you know as ridiculous as that sounds
now because but it's true and I don't
know where we go from here
legitimate journalism is so important
it's so important it's the only way you
really find out what's going on right
only way right you're not gonna find out
through the depictions of the people
that were actually involved in it they
want you to see it a certain way you're
not gonna find out from people that have
financial incentives and giving you a
specific narrative you need real
journalism yeah it's so hard to find I
think it's one of the reasons why we're
so lost and it's one of the more
insidious aspects of the term fake news
because god damn that's so easy to throw
around it's like it's so easy to call
someone a bigot it's so easy to call
someone a racist and it's so easy to say
fake news and all that they all have the
same sort of effect they just diminish
anything that you have to say almost
instantaneously totally and and there's
when you can cast the entire news as
being fake people can tune a tuning out
but a lot of that has to do with it but
who is doing the news reading now right
like in the 60s and 70s maybe before
reporters a lot of them came from the
middle and lower classes like the you
know they were it was the job was
originally kind of like being a plumber
right it was more of a trade than a
profession and so you had a lot of
people who who went into the job and
they had this kind of attitude of just
wanting to stick it to the man you know
like they they they didn't want to be
close to power they wanted to take it on
people like Seymour Hersh right like if
you see that kind of personality who
just wants to take the truth and rub it
in somebody's face but then after all
the President's Men it became this sexy
thing to be a journalist and you saw a
lot of people from my generation who
went into journalism because they wanted
to be close to politicians and hang out
with them kind of like the primary
colors thing right where you see people
who they just want to like have a beer
with the king with the presidential
candidate and that's totally different
from what it used to be like now so now
now we're on the wrong side of the Rope
line you see them saying like we're like
we used we used to be outside of power
like taking it on and now we're kind of
seeing we're more upper class
in the press and we're we're kind of in
bed with the same people we were
supposed to be covering and that's
that's not a good thing people when
people see that they they they you know
that's that's one of the reasons why
they say they call us fake news is
because they they see us as doing PR for
you know rich people one of my favorite
books ever about politics is fear and
loathing on the campaign yeah I wrote
the introduction to that did you you had
to let the last the last edition of that
greatest book yeah it's a fantastic book
and it's a great example of someone who
knew that they weren't a part of that
system so they could talk about it as an
outsider he knew he was only gonna be
covering it for a year you just went in
guns blaze and got everybody fucked up
drinking on the bus making everybody do
all of them you know yeah and he says
that in the book he's like I was like
look this isn't my beat I don't have any
friends I have to keep you know yeah so
I'm gonna tell you everything that I see
and fuck it and and that's that's a real
problem in reporting when you when you
you're in a beat for too long you end up
have developing unhealthy relationships
with sources and you end up in a
position where you're not going to burn
the people who you're depending on to
get your information and when that
happens to reporters I think that's one
of the reasons is good to to kind of
cycle through different topics over the
course of your career if you get stuck
in the same same beat too long
eventually that you fall into that trap
and Thompson of course never did that
like you know every story that he
covered was he let it all hang out and
just said whatever the hell he thought
and you know he let the chips fall where
they may and that's kind of the way I
mean you can't do that all the time
probably but I think that's thing that
was great it was amazing and there's no
other examples of it no no I'm like that
yeah yeah yeah I mean that book was so
great on so on so many levels like he I
always thought it was being also kind of
like a novel because it's a it's this
story about this person who's like
obsessed with finding meaning and truth
but he he could he goes to the most fake
place on earth which is the campaign
trail yeah to look for it and so all
these depictions of all these terrible
lying people they're just so hilarious
and and
and so it's kind of you know it's almost
like a Franz Kafka novel it's amazing
and then it's great journalism at the
same time like he's telling you how the
system works and how elections work and
it's really valuable for that so yeah
that was brilliant he also changed a lot
I mean he actually affected politicians
like the shit that he did with Ed muskie
that was fantastic when he was on the
Dick Cavett show and Dick Cavett asked
him about it he goes well there was a
rumor that he was on ibogaine and I
started that rumor I mean it's just he
like literally that he got in that guy's
head oh yeah and the I remember the he
put that picture of muskie he just found
a picture of muskie and it's he's
basically wearing like that yeah the
caption is muskie and the throws of a
nibble gain frenzy right and you
couldn't get really get away with that
now like he just he just you know it's a
crazy drug to choose to because the drug
that gets you off addictions right yeah
exactly
more hilarious aspects of his choice but
it sounded great yeah Brazilian which
dog yeah yeah yeah it was fantastic oh
so good yeah but you know that that kind
of stuff probably wouldn't go over all
that well right now don't get sued yeah
but the that also he had this very very
sort of a aggressively characterizing
way of looking at politics and and
politicians and that that wouldn't go
over that well now either like people
don't want you to rip on the process as
much as he did in that book so it was
great it was just a fantastic book yeah
I mean he had a bunch of them that were
great but that one particularly it's you
can sort of redo it you could reread it
every time we get to an election cycle
you sort of let goes oh you it lets you
know these are these are repeating
cycles this this is just like the same
shit that he was dealing with and you
know various different forms but you can
see it all today and it's funny the
reporters everybody's read that book
everybody who covers Kent in the
campaign
you know I'm on my fifth right now for
Rolling Stone like I had I have his old
job and everybody has read that book and
so they're they unconsciously try to
make the same characters in each
election cycle so there's always like a
christ-like mcgovern figure there's
there's a you know a turncoat Quisling
spineless musky figure there's the end
here's the the villain Nixon trumpet
Trump kind of fills that role for a lot
of reporters now and then they'll a lot
of them try to behave in the same way
that the characters behaved in that book
so you remember Frank mankiewicz was was
McGovern's sort of handler and he was
having beers with with Thompson after
the events and kind you know
strategizing with him the reporters try
to do that they all try to do that with
the candidates and their handlers now
they try to develop those same
relationship it's just interesting it's
like they're really reliving the book
you know that's a problem with someone
that's really good you know they take on
so many imitators and there's so many
imitators take on their demeanor and
their thought process like and Hunter
was just such an iconic version of a
writer that it's it's so difficult if
you're a fan of his to not want to be
like that guy oh totally I mean I you
know I I know that I know that you know
especially because I'm writing for the
same magazine and covering a lot of the
same topics you have to immediately
realize that you can't do what he did
like he Thompson's writing was
incredibly ambitious and and unique he
he was using a lot of the same teks
techniques that the great fiction
writers used like he was creating almost
like this four dimensional you know
story but at the same time it was also
journalism like you can't really most
people couldn't get away with that you
have to be a great great writer I'm not
talking like over rare Mark Twain level
yeah talent to really to do what he did
which is to kind of mix the you know the
ambition of great fiction with with
journalism so if you try to do that
stuff it's going to be terrible and I've
done I've certainly if you look go back
and look at my road and you'll
a lot of like shitty Thompson imitations
and and so I learned to not do that
pretty early but ya know you it's one of
those don't try this at home things for
young writers if you can if you can
avoid that for sure do you have any do
you have any hope there's it or anything
that that you look to ego maybe this is
going to be where this turns around in
terms of journalism in terms of like yes
I mean I think I mean oddly enough I
think you you know show it shows like
yours and the kind of proliferation of
like what you're talking about with with
podcasts the great thing about the
Internet there are lots of bad things
but the great thing about it is that
it's given it's provided a way for
people to just have an audience if
they're good right if and if people have
a demand for it they're gonna there if
there's a mint demand for it you can
exist you can have a platform and and so
that's what I think is going to happen
is that people are going to crack the
code of what what kind of journalism
people want and they're gonna create
something that people are going to flock
to and I don't have a lot of faith that
CBS MSNBC ABC CNN that they're gonna
figure it out like I think it's going to
be some independent kind of voice that
is going to come up with something a new
formula and people are that is gonna
rise up you know I mean you've seen it a
little bit with things like The Young
Turks you know although they're you know
they're chant they've changed a little
bit but they figured out that if you
provide something it's an alternative
from the usual thing that you can you
can succeed you can get a viable
functioning business a lot faster than
you used to be able to what do you mean
by they changed um you know I I think
you know they've they've kind of become
a little bit more in the direction of a
traditional news organization than they
were originally maybe I don't know I I
don't watch I don't watch it as much as
I used to so maybe I shouldn't say that
but but you know again the ability to do
that is a lot different than it you
to be like an or in order to have an
independent journalism outlet you used
to have to like for instance put out
your own newspaper which do you do your
own distribution do you run printing do
your own design all this have cost a ton
of money and it was very very hard to do
it without big corporate sponsors now
you know now anybody with a good idea
can pretty much you know do something
and I have it so I have a lot of hope
that somebody's gonna figure it out it
just it just we're not there yet I agree
with you I'm optimistic I have a lot of
hope too but I'm always like rock with
hurry up already
yeah I know I know and you know and it's
just until we get there the the remnants
of the old system of media they're just
you know it's just so tough to watch
flailing you know they're they're
flailing they don't really know what to
do they're they're kind of caught
between just purely chasing the money
and trying to adhere to what they
thought the news look like in the past
so it's like not entertaining you know
if they were just chasing the money if
they just come up organically today they
would have had a different product
entirely but they're trying to sound
like legitimate news but they're also
completely selling out at the same time
and it's just not working you know yeah
and so yeah we'll see worse we'll see
where all that goes but it's it's we're
not here you're right they're flailing
right now well Matt Taibbi I appreciate
you man thanks a lot you really do you
wanted to talk to you know likewise your
book tell people hey tink it's held
called hey tink its bio are books it's
out its out now you can buy it on Amazon
and my podcast is called useful idiots
with Cape Cady Halper rollingstone.com
so check that out once a week thank you
thanks Joe hi everybody
[Music]